# 5. Tools

The tools which offers Alis are a set of diverse functionalities that in one way or another will increase productivity, reducing development time. That is why it has been decided to completely decouple them from the framework and, if necessary, to incorporate them into any other project without having to load the complete framework.

## Data persistence

Data persistence is a very important element in our video games as it will always be necessary to save some concrete data. However, it can sometimes be a real challenge and therefore, Alis proposes two tools that will allow you to manage your data both locally and in the cloud.

### LocalData

With this tool you can save and have access to any type of information locally, whether it is a primitive or composite object, you can encrypt the information and all this at runtime without affecting the performance of the video game.

### CloudData

This tool is very similar to 'LocalData', with the difference that it manages data in the cloud. For now it is only compatible with Dropbox, and what makes it special is that it allows the uploading and downloading of files asynchronously, which should not affect the performance of the video game.

## Multilanguage support

Nowadays, more and more video games that we can find are translated into different languages. During the development of these projects it is difficult to introduce several languages if it was not taken into account from the beginning. For this reason, the following tool is proposed:

### Language

With this tool you can have a centralized management system for the languages of your video game. And thanks to its incorporation of events in runtime you can change languages almost immediately.

## Security

Security in your video games is something to consider, since there will always be people who try to violate the security of your project with the aim of making the so-called "cheats or hacks". That is why the following tools are offered:

### Encriptor

This tool offers you several encryption systems to use them when you need them without having to invest time in researching and developing them yourself.

### Crypted

It is an ideal tool to prevent them from accessing data in RAM memory, as it allows you to save encrypted data in RAM memory and access them when needed.

## Resource management

Managing the resources of your video game can be a real problem, especially when it comes to multi-platform games that will communicate
in different ways with their respective operating systems. For this reason the following tool has been created:

### Asset

With this tool you can locate any resource of your videogame, which is in the 'assets' folder, providing the name of the resource.

### Application

With this tool we will access all the directories of interest of the execution system, allowing in just one line to obtain what we need.

## Files management

Sometimes we must pack files or resources of our video games. A common case is to generate a compressed file of the saved game and then use it or even upload it to a server. These file management tasks can become a problem when it comes to multi-platform projects. Alis offers the following tool:

### Zipper

This tool is used to compress or decompress files in the '.zip' format in a synchronously or asynchronously way.

## Debug

Knowing what happens at all times during the development of a video game is somewhat tedious and can sometimes be an unnecessary effort, if it has been raised from the beginning. For this reason, Alis provides the following tool:

### Logger

This tool allows you to control the traces of the project. With 'Logger' you can make multilevel messages (log, warning, info or critical), save all the outputs in a file and configure several levels depending on what is needed.


